TiUP: add mirrors.md and package-component.md (#2481)
pingcap/docs: reference/tools/tiup/mirrors.md

---
title: Create a Private Mirror
summary: Learn how to create a private mirror.
category: tools
---

# Create a Private Mirror

When creating a private cloud, usually, you need to use an isolated network environment, where the official mirror of TiUP is not accessible. Therefore, you can create a private mirror, which is mainly implemented by the `mirrors` component. You can also use `mirrors` for offline deployment.

> ## `mirrors` description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## TiUP `mirrors` overview
```
For unification reasons.

      --blackbox_exporter strings   Specify the versions for component blackbox_exporter
      --node_exporter strings       Specify the versions for component node_exporter
      --pushgateway strings         Specify the versions for component pushgateway
      --tiflash strings             Specify the versions for component tiflash
      --drainer strings             Specify the versions for component drainer
      --pump strings                Specify the versions for component pump
      --cluster strings             Specify the versions for component cluster
      --mirrors strings             Specify the versions for component mirrors
      --bench strings               Specify the versions for component bench
      --insight strings             Specify the versions for component insight
      --doc strings                 Specify the versions for component doc
      --ctl strings                 Specify the versions for component ctl
  -h, --help                        help for tiup
```

The basic usage of the `tiup mirrors` command is as follows:

{{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

```bash
tiup mirrors <target-dir> [global-version] [flags]
```

> - `target-dir`: used to specifies the directory in which cloned data is stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `target-dir`: used to specify the directory in which cloned data is stored.
```
This kind of mistake is obvious and should not be made again.

- `global-version`: used to quickly set a global version for all components.

> The `tiup mirrors` command provides many optional flags (might provide more in the future). These flags can be divided into the following four categories according to their intended usages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tiup mirrors` command provides many optional flags (might provide more in the future). These flags can be divided into the following categories according to their intended usages:
```
It's better not to specify the number here, in case someone adds a new category below and forgets to change this number.

> - Determines whether to override local packages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Determines whether to overwrite local packages
```

>     The `--overwrite` flag determines whether to override the local package with the package of the official mirror, if the specified `<target-dir>` contains the package you need to download. If you set this flag, the local package is overridden.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The `--overwrite` flag determines whether to overwrite the local package with the package of the official mirror, if the specified `<target-dir>` directory contains the package you need to download. If you set this flag, the local package is overwritten.
```

- Determines whether to use the full clone

>     If you specify the `--full` flag, you can clone the official mirror completely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you specify the `--full` flag, you can clone the official mirror fully.
```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > If `--full` and the other flags are not specified, only some meta information is cloned.

- Determines whether to clone packages from the specific platform

>     If you only clone packages from one or more specific platforms, use `-os` and `-arch` to specify the platform. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you want to clone packages only for a specific platform, use `-os` and `-arch` to specify the platform. For example:
```

>     - Execute the `tiup mirros <target-dir> --os=linux` command to clone from linux.

Reviewer 3: `to clone from linux` -> `to clone for linux`

Reviewer 3: the `--os` and `--arch` flags specific download packages that  can run on these `os` and `arch`

>     - Execute the `tiup mirros <target-dir> --arch=amd64` command to clone from amd64.

Reviewer 3: from amd64 -> for amd64

>     - Execute the `tiup mirros <target-dir> --os=linux --arch=amd64` command to clone from linux/amd64.

Reviewer 3: from linux/amd64 -> for linux/amd64

> - Determines whether to clone the specific version of the packages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Determines whether to clone a specific version of a package
```

>     If you clone only one version (not all versions) of a component, use `--<component>=<version>` to specify the version. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you want to clone only one version (not all versions) of a component, use `--<component>=<version>` to specify this version. For example:
```

>     - Execute the `tiup mirrors <target-dir> --tidb v4` command to clone the v4 version of TiDB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Execute the `tiup mirrors <target-dir> --tidb v4` command to clone the v4 version of the TiDB component.
```

>     - Execute the `tiup mirros <target-dir> --tidb v4 --tikv all` command to clone the v4 version of TiDB, as well as all versions of TiKV.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Execute the `tiup mirros <target-dir> --tidb v4 --tikv all` command to clone the v4 version of the TiDB component and all versions of the TiKV component.
```

    - Execute the `tiup mirrors <target-dir> v4.0.0-rc` command to clone the v4.0.0-rc version of all components in a cluster.

## Usage examples

This section introduces the usage examples of `mirrors`, including offline installation of a TiDB cluster, and the creation of a private mirror.

> ### Offline install a TiDB cluster using TiUP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Install a TiDB cluster offline using TiUP
```

> If you want to offline install a TiDB cluster of the v4.0.0-rc version in an isolated environment, take the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to install a TiDB cluster of the v4.0.0-rc version in an isolated environment, take the following steps:
```

1. Pull the required components on a machine connected to the external network:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    tiup mirrors package --os=linux v4.0.0-rc
    ```

>     Then you can create a `package` directory in the current directory. The `package` directory contains necessary components packages to start a cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Then a `package` directory is created in the current directory. This `package` directory contains necessary components packages to start a cluster.
```

> 2. Use the `tar` command to archive the components packages and send it to the central control machine that is in the isolated environment:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Use the `tar` command to pack the components package and send this package to the central control machine that is in the isolated environment:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    tar czvf package.tar.gz package
    ```

    Then `package.tar.gz` is an isolated, offline environment.

3. After sending the package to the central control machine of the target cluster, execute the following command to install TiUP:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    tar xzvf package.tar.gz
    cd package
    sh local_install.sh
    ```

4. Follow the instructions to finish the installation of TiUP, and then deploy the TiDB cluster:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    export TIUP_MIRRORS=/path/to/mirror
    tiup cluster deploy <cluster-name> <cluster-version> <topology-file>
    tiup cluster start <cluster-name>
    ```

    `/path/to/mirror` refers to where `<target-dir>` (in `tiup mirrors <target-dir>`) is. If `/tmp/package` refers to where `<target-dir>` is, execute the following command instead:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    export TIUP_MIRRORS=/tmp/package
    ```

> After you complete the deployment, refer to [Deploy and Maintain the TiDB Online Cluster Using TiUP](/reference/tools/tiup/cluster.md) for more details of the cluster operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you complete the deployment, refer to [Deploy and Maintain an Online TiDB Cluster Using TiUP](/reference/tools/tiup/cluster.md) for more details of the cluster operations.
```

### Create a private mirror

> The process of creating a private mirror is similar to that of creating an offline installer. The only difference is that you need to upload the content of the `package` directory to CDN or a file server. Execute the following command to create a private mirror:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The process of creating a private mirror is similar to that of creating an offline installer. The only difference is that, to create a private mirror, you need to upload the content of the `package` directory to CDN or a file server. Execute the following command to create a private mirror:
```
